[Music]
okay get ready to take some notes yep
important stuff here for easy tips for
survival at sea summer is approaching
fast and you probably can't wait to head
to the sunny seaside or perhaps you
already have a nice beach getaway
planned in either case
don't let the anticipation and
preparation whisk you away completely
both the beach and the sea can be full
of dangers but if you know how to deal
with all kinds of unexpected situations
nothing will be able to ruin your fun in
the Sun so grab a pen and paper and get
ready to take note of these general
safety rules when it comes to resting at
the seaside first of all don't forget to
pack all these beach necessities a
first-aid kit with medications for a
variety of emergencies prescriptions and
devices like inhalers or epi pens
sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30
coolers with ice plenty of bottled water
and drinks food at least sandwiches
cookies trail mix fruit or crackers
now in case of an emergency you'll have
everything you need to pull through it
especially if there is a cookie
emergency hey it happens let's get down
to some specific dangers you might run
swim into on your seaside getaway
[Music]
[Applause]
what to do if you spotted a shark
[Music]
well first and foremost don't panic
I know easier said than done but maybe
this surprising tidbit will calm your
nerves
these predators bad wrap is a bit
unsubstantiated in fact only a few
people a year on the whole planet are
killed by sharks
this means that statistically you have
more chances of drowning somewhere near
the beach or even being struck by
lightning than becoming a victim of a
shark attack nevertheless knowing
exactly what to do when meeting this
carnivorous fish will lower your risks
of being attacked or seriously injured 1
never go into the water if there's a
posted warning on the beach be attentive
read all the information around you and
listen to what they say over the
loudspeaker 2 don't swim at night or at
dawn or dusk this is when sharks hunt so
they're more aggressive than usual not
to mention when it's dark out you have
almost zero visibility so it's pretty
much impossible to see an approaching
animal
number three swim only in clear and calm
water this way you'll be able to spot
danger from far away
remember that sharks can rely on other
senses besides vision well you have only
your eyes to depend on number four and
very importantly don't start singing the
jaws theme song you know bum bum bum bum
bum bum bum bum bum you know like that
anyways some sharks like to show off to
the other sharks and bite a tourist and
well this just encourages them actually
I just made all that up sharks can't
sing also be careful what you wear
sharks can negatively react to bright
colors and shiny things because they
look like the Sharks usual prey of fish
and seals so don't look like a seal
avoid wearing bright swimsuits
especially yellow and colorful swimming
fins because a shark might mistake you
for its lunch and before you get in the
water take off all your shiny jewelry
and accessories since these reflective
and metallic things look just like shiny
fish scales
[Music]
number five don't splash or thrash
around in the water too much in a
shark's brain this sudden movement must
be a wounded defenseless animal again
that's an easy meal for them avoid
sudden movements when you're swimming
underwater too because it might seem
like you're in distress or you might
look like a seal number six if you've
spotted a shark stay calm and
concentrate on getting away and out of
the water you need to do this quietly
and quickly yeah right number seven
check for signs of aggression indicating
that the animal is about to attack
these include circling arching the back
making sharp turns or lowering the
dorsal fin if an attack seems inevitable
take a defensive position now you might
have heard that you should punch a shark
in the nose to survive its attack
although this is true not many people
have enough courage or strength to do
this especially underwater in the
extremely rare instance of a prolonged
deadly encounter pull out these notes
and study them thoroughly and then
determine the best course of action
actually if you take that much time
you'll be the main course for the shark
so do this instead try to put a solid
object between you and the animal for
example a diving mass or a surfboard or
maybe your buddy over there if there's
nothing at hand the best way to scare a
shark away is to scratch at its eyes or
gills don't stop fighting this way the
shark will get the message that you're
not worth all the trouble otherwise you
can always refer the shark toward that
other guy to eat as a substitute
[Music]
how to avoid a jellyfish sting
now if you take some pre-emptive
measures you won't need to worry about
jellyfish stings first of all choose an
area where you can swim safely if you
know that there are jellyfish around
avoid that place da also pay attention
to warning signs and watch for purple
flags that's the International sign that
you'll most likely encounter jellyfish
in the water if you see a jellyfish
that's washed ashore don't touch it even
if the animal is dead its tentacles are
still poisonous and can sting the gift
that keeps on giving now if you didn't
manage to steer clear of jellyfish and
got stung don't panic
their stings are rarely life-threatening
sure they hurt a lot and can cause a
rash in extreme cases the venom can even
spread throughout the body but if you
react quickly and correctly there won't
be any dire consequences immediately
call emergency services like 911 if the
affected area is large for example your
whole arm or your torso
if the jellyfish touched your face or
genitals or if you're having a bad
allergic reaction the box jellyfish
which can be found near the coast of
Australia Hawaii and in the indo-pacific
is especially dangerous its venom is
incredibly potent so look out for a
light blue creature with a cube-shaped
head that can reach up to six feet long
wow that sounds like my brother-in-law
hmm after you've been stung by a
jellyfish get out of the water and stay
calm
don't touch or scratch the place of the
sting because there might still be some
tentacles attached to your skin or some
sea water not fresh water this is really
important over the affected area and
leave it don't dry it off with a towel
or anything then or a generous amount of
vinegar over the tentacles in your skin
and let it sit for at least a half a
minute if you can add some hot water to
the vinegar after that scrape off the
remaining tentacles with something
plastic like a credit card to relieve
the pain submerge the injured part of
your body in
warm water at about a hundred and ten
degrees Fahrenheit
experts say the heat sues the pain and
deactivates the venom better than ice as
for the whole peon a jellyfish sting tip
it's a myth so don't do that nobody
wants to see that
[Music]
what to do if you've stepped on a sea
urchin
stepping on a sea urchin while going for
a nice relaxing swim in the salty water
is extremely common and it can seriously
ruin your vacation it's in sea urchins
are venomous and their stings require
immediate treatment first off make sure
you're not feeling any chest pain nausea
or difficulty breathing if you are call
emergency services and if not start by
removing all the spines they make
puncture wounds and usually get stuck in
the skin use tweezers to pull them out
especially if the ends of the spines are
protruding if they're not you can use
hot wax put it on the effective area
wait for it to dry and pull it off it'll
take the spines with it once you're sure
there are no spines left in your body
clean the wound with soap and water you
can also use hydrogen peroxide or
betadine
don't cover the wound with a bandage or
tape because any spines left over need
some space to get out of your body
put a light covering over the wound only
before you go to bed otherwise it might
irritate it in your sleep
[Music]
what to do when you've been pulled into
a rip current
[Music]
poisonous animals aren't the only thing
you should be aware of during your
relaxation at the beach there's one more
thing that claims over 100 lives every
year in the US alone yep we're talking
about rip currents they can occur at any
Beach with breaking waves they're
fast-moving and narrow streams of water
that can pull you away from the shore
before going into the water
check for any suspicious looking
channels places with rip currents can be
foamy or on the contrary quieter than
others if you enter the water and feel a
strong pull get out immediately as soon
as the water gets up to your chest
it'll be practically impossible to break
free if you've still got caught by the
current stay calm it won't pull you
under water and don't exhaust yourself
trying to fight the current in most
cases there no wider than thirty feet so
if you start swimming parallel to the
shore you'll manage to escape it's all
another tip is to swim in the direction
of the breaking waves they mark the
borders of the rip current as soon as
you get out of the current swim
diagonally towards the shore this way
you'll avoid getting caught in it again
[Music]
have you ever had emergencies at the
beach how did you deal with them share
your experiences and tips in the comment
section below also be sure to get all
our updates by subscribing to our
Channel and keeping on the bright side
on the bright